So every year, they appointed a new committee on the same subject.
And then they would table the motion.
And when I heard here, the people in the committee had spent a great deal of time and effort to come to a conclusion.
And in every case, it was the same conclusion, obviously.
And so every year, they tabled it.
And so after hearing all of this, and then somebody said, well, let's table a motion.
I got up and said, if we table this one more time, this meeting is nothing but a damn farce.
And that was what I was known for after that.
One of my colleagues, since I came at midterm, had called me Fish Pierce.
So I was Fish Pierce, and then after that meeting, I was Ferocious Fish Pierce.
And that was my nickname.
And people would say, it's nothing but a damn farce, and greeted Jimmy for months after that.
And so I got to be well known.
I never could keep my mouth shut at meetings.
I always go into a meeting and say, now Frank, you don't have to say anything.
And then somebody would say something stupid and I would, mouth would open, I would say something that was devastating or sarcastic.
In those early years, were there annual pay increases for faculty?
There were, you usually got a pay increase, but not a whole lot.
How did you learn what your new salary was going to be?
You got a little slip of paper saying what your rank was.
It was a Xerox or meme graph blank and it had, so your salary is such and such.
You're hired for nine months or 10 and a half months or 12 months and your rank is.
and that's what you got.
You had no written contract.
And who decided in the early years what courses you would teach and what hours they would be, those courses would be?
Well, usually the schedule committee.
In the department?
In the department, yeah, with the consent of the head.
And I served many years on the Schedule Committee and was Director of Scheduling.
After I got to be Director of Scheduling, nobody really told me what to do.
You, certain people,
owned courses.
And so my favorite story about that happened just about a year ago when Stanley Archer died.
Stanley, being a professor, owned a certain course, and Paul Parrish, who taught in the same field, said, you know Stanley,
I figure that at the present rate it'll be 17 years before you retire before I'll get to teach one of my courses in my own field because you own all of these courses.
And he said, Stanley thought for a moment and said, well, you do have a problem, don't you?
And this is another story about Stanley.
When he died, they had a memorial service.
And that was when Paul told his story about Stanley.
And I got up and gave a little memory of Stanley, whom I'd worked with on many committees and many things.
And I said on several occasions, he persuaded me.
But I said, I never recall ever persuading Stanley of anything.
And so when Dave Stewart went up to the head of the department that wanted to be the dean of liberal arts and he went to the meeting where they interrogated him, he came back very angry at me and shook his finger at me.
He says, you cost me the deanship.
You cost me the deanship.
And I said, why?
How?
I wrote a very glowing letter on your behalf.
He said, they quoted you.
I said, oh, what did I say?
They said, Frank Pierce said that Dave Stewart is to the right of Attila the Hun.
I said, that's not right, Dave.
That's not what I said.
I said, what I actually said was, Dave Stewart is to the right of Stanley Archer, who is to the right of Attila the Hun.
So he didn't say anything more.
Dr. Morgan, describe Dr. Morgan.
Did he follow Mayo as department head?
Yes.
He was short, stocky, bull-headed, bull-faced man.
He called him Bloody Morgan and rightly so.
because of the red ink on term papers.
I don't know how he had gotten.
It might have been that.
I remember being in Casey's one day, having coffee, and a student came over to me and said, would you look at this, Mr. Pearson?
And it was a paper he'd gotten back from Dr. Martin.
And there was a zigzag, almost like a lightning strike in the margin.
And he said, can you tell me what this means?
And I turned it around at every angle.
I said, no, I can't.
He said, well, I turned it around as you did, and finally I took it to Dr. Morgan.
And I said, Dr. Morgan, what does this mark mean?
And he had a habit of screwing up his face.
And he said, well, let's read it and see.
He said, obviously, he didn't know what it was, so he said, let's read it and see.
And so he read it and he said, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
It's just not there.
He treasured any disagreements you had, and he would bring it up.
For example, he was made head of the English department out at the field when they moved the freshman out to the air base, former air base, to keep them from being hazed, which didn't succeed at all.
And a lot of people that I knew were friends lived out at the air base and got to know them.
Dr. Morgan was head out there.
John Paul Abbott was the dean out there from the English department.
And so twice a week I would—Roy Keel and I would drive out there and teach courses on that campus.
And then some days I would help out in the office
When between the classes that I was teaching out there, I would help out in the office by answering the phone, and that way I got to use the typewriter to type stories and things of that nature.
And Bloody had thought up this idea of having
At examination, final exam time, you switch papers and you would take ten papers from one professor and ten papers from another professor and ten from another.
And before the professor ever got to grade his own papers, they were graded by somebody else.
And so you had twice as many freshman papers, final examinations to grade.
And it was just tedious work when you really didn't have time to do it.
And we had what an essay question was and how do you write an essay and so on.
And we had three of us wrote what we thought.
And we couldn't even agree on the introduction.
Freddie Eckfeldt wrote, and I wrote, and Lloyd Kiel wrote.
We did this sampling of the thing.
And we couldn't even agree what the first sentence should be, how you introduce something.
So I said, how the hell can the students do it and satisfy somebody or other teachers when they've been taught a different way?
Freddie Eckfeldt said, I was embarrassed to hand the papers back to Nick Quick with 18 of his students failed until I got my paper back
from Nick Quick, and he had failed all of my students.
Spell Nick, which name?
Q-U-I-C-K.
That's what I thought.
The program out at the old air base began in the fall of 47?
You came, or did it begin your first fall?
I remember going out there in
after I got married, which was in September of 1947.
I guess it started before that because we used to have a dinner, annual Christmas dinner that everybody attended.
And it usually was on about the 19th, and then we'd go on Christmas vacation.
And I remember being introduced to somebody at that dinner saying, this is one of your colleagues from the campus at the old air basin.
The man was Mr. Childs.
He was one of the many characters that came through here.
And Mr. Childs asked me what I taught.
And I told him, I said, well, I teach English, but I'm primarily a speech teacher.
He said, oh, you teach speech?
I said, yes.
He said, what do you think of Robinson?
I tried to think of all the Robinsons I knew, including a black family from my hometown.
I said, Robinson?
I don't know any of Robinson.
Mr. Child said, he teaches speech and he doesn't know Robinson.
He turned in another direction.
He teaches speech and he doesn't know Robinson.
All through the dinner,
I couldn't think of anything but trying to think of who the hell Robinson was with Peach.
So after the dinner was over, I went and sought out Mr. Childs and said, Mr. Childs, who is Robinson?
Robinson?
I don't know any Robinson.
But we'll get back to Bloody Morgan.
got to talking about this thing about changing papers, changing exam papers.
And we got to talking about it in front of about six or seven hundred students who were taking the final examination.
And I told him I thought it was unfair that most of us hadn't had a chance to vote on it or have anything to say in it and just have us
made to do this.
And so he spit on my shirt and I spit on his bald head as we got angrier and angrier.
And so the day he was made head of the English department, I met him in the rotunda.
I can mark the spot and show you where it was.
And he said, Mr. Pierce, and always before it was Frank, Mr. Pierce.
Do you remember the disagreement we had at final examination time out at the field?"
I said, yes, Dr. Morgan, I remember it vividly.
He said, have you changed your opinion?
And so I went home at lunch and I said to my wife, I said, I'm going to resign.
I can't work under that bastard.
She said, would you do me a favor?
I said, of course.
She said, you have a wife and a daughter to support.
Would you mind getting another job before you resign?
I said, well, that makes all the sense in the world.
So I looked around for another job, and there just weren't any.
It was one of those blank periods, and then the semester had already started, and there was no way to get another job.
So I toughed it out for years under Bloody Mark until I helped give him a heart attack.
But you mentioned the red ink, and that was very important.
You never did anything that he didn't have to approve it.
And the moment you walked in the door with your report or whatever it was that you had written,
His automatic reaction was to reach for that red pen.
And he had to make a correction.
Now, I will admit, sometimes the correction improved, tightened up a sentence.
But as often as not, it didn't.
I deliberately would write something and spend hours on it just to make sure it was as well written as it could be.
And then when he made the change, it always was for the worst.
Now, let's say back to your own life.
You came without a car.
How long before you, how long were you here before you bought a car?
Well, I didn't buy a car.
My parents gave me their old car.
How long?
I had it before I married.
I guess I got it sometime in
In 46 or the first part of 47.
And you got married in 47.
Yeah.
And your wife, she was from back home?
No, she's native Texan.
Oh.
And if her father had had teaching, she would have been born, summer teaching, she would have been born at A&M.
Her father was Aggie class of 1910.
and she grew up here.
She was born in Iowa Park, Texas, where her parents were both from, and her father had been in the
Civil Engineering Department, and he taught Civil Engineering for one year.
And that was at the time Billy Joe was—in 1921, and that was the time that Billy Joe was born.
And so she had grown up in Dallas, largely.
and where her father was an engineer.
She had gone to Texas State College for Women, was a Tessie, and then she became a librarian.
She had studied library science and was one of their first graduates with a master's.
And she had gone to Baylor and worked and then gone into civil service and worked during the war at Naval Air Base in Karpus.
And then she had gotten a job at A&M, and she was the head reference librarian at A&M.
And that's how you all met?
Yeah.
I always said I went over to the library to check out a book and checked out the librarian.
And even if you've heard about the bats in the library this last year, well, they had bats in the library back then.
Really?
Yeah.
It was the night when she'd be working in the reference room while the bats would go flying around.
Where did y'all, when you got married, where did y'all first live?
Well, we lived at about the only apartment house in Colley Station at that time.
It was four apartments on Foster Street.
And the building's still there.
Do you remember what the rent was?
I wrote an article about it one time somewhere about doing it.
It wasn't very expensive.
Probably about $47 comes to mind.
I don't know whether that was it or not.
And I'm assuming that the Little College Station and Bryan were both crowded then because of the veteran enrollment.
Oh, yeah.
When I came here, I was number 26, 27, and 28 were yet to come, Mr. Y and Z. And then that summer,
I didn't have summer teaching and went home.
When I got back in the fall, the English department had gone from 28 people to 52 people.
The enrollment when I was first here was about 10,000 and then it had gone up tremendously.
We had almost doubled the department size.
in that semester.
And then a lot of those people were, I guess, out at the field.
And many of them became my close friends, Sam Southwell, Nick Quick, and the Hearths, yes, and Lee Martin.
Lee Martin at one time was my best friend.
He got the idea of buying overhead projectors.
He saw an advertisement for overhead projectors and he took it to somebody and they sent him to General Rudder.
And the general was enthralled with the idea and sent him to the Staff and Command School.
at Fort Leavenworth in Kansas to learn about the Army's use of overhead projectors.
And then when he came back, I always said because of an overhead projector, Lee became the head of the English department, an assistant dean, and head of KAMU-TV.
He was first director of KAMU-TV, all because of an overhead projector.
And Lee was a dear friend, but he didn't have the temperament to be a department head.
He'd explode.
When he exploded, you'd hear him down at the end of the hall.
Fortunately, he never exploded at me because we were too much of a mind.
In general, where were the English faculty from geographically?
Well, they were from all over, really.
We had a number from Iowa, and I knew that because I was from there.
We had people from Illinois and Texas, University of Texas.
Harry Kidd came from Virginia originally.
So, and then John Paul Abbott was from, I think, Tennessee.
Robert Penn Warren was one of his teachers.
And the student body in the late 40s and 50s, all male, basically where were they from and what were their basic attitudes?
Well, this was a very conservative campus.
The whole thing was reflected.
It was part of the Bible Belt.
I discovered that.
I made a study to institute my GI Bill of Rights.
I took some courses in the English department, some of which I'd taught already.
and some which I was going to teach in the future, maybe.
So I took one with the 210, the logic course, and I made a study for my term paper for that under one of my colleagues, Mr. Carmichael, who was one of a number.
I guess I took it under Frank Powell.
I was Frank Powell.
Putt-putt Powell.
And he gave us a technical report to write, an essay, and so I studied the Dallas Morning News, which claimed to be a democratic
paper, and it was the most hidebound.
It was a liberal on their master, I think, a liberal Democratic paper, and it was the most conservative, hidebound Republican paper you could find, and that was typical of much of the thinking in the state and in the thing.
You never saw any story about a black man.
that was good that you didn't see another story right next to it or under it about a black man that was bad.
You never saw anything about labor that was good that didn't have an equally bad story about labor next to it.
And so it was obviously deliberate.
And so that was my introduction to that.
Now the students here, were they hardworking?
Some were and some weren't.
They were typical.
We were supposed to have an honor system.
But I remember we had this meeting about cheating in the department and what we should do about it.
One man had four sections of sophomore literature, and he had gotten any number of two, three, four, the same identical book reports.
But his thing that really horrified him was he had 12 identical book reports among those 100 students.
So the Corps had their files.
And so all they had to do was get the files, but they didn't write down what professor they gave them to and all.
And so they ended up with one teacher getting 12 identical reviews.
And so I remember one time I got this A report from a student who had never done anything but F work for me.
And so I didn't put a mark on it because it was perfect.
I put an F on it and no comment.
And he came in just furious.
He said, how come this paper would always got an A before you give an F to?
He said, my roommate.
Got an A from it last week from his teacher.
I said, well, if you will give me your roommate's name and the teacher's name, I'll see that your grades are equalized.
How stupid do you think I am?
I said, brother, you will never know.
But that was typical.
I mean, there was a great deal.
We had a quiz A and a quiz E.
And there were 100 questions that we gave a student at the beginning of the course.
And then the quiz was another similar 100 questions on English at the end.
And so you normally had, or at least I had, about 10 or 11 points improvement by the end of the semester.
I once had a student have made 30 points improvement, but his first paper was 40, the second was 70.
So I had this one summer class, and we were trying to use up some of the old quizzes.
I had a lot to do that day, and so I asked my wife to grade the quizzes for me and gave her the key.
She said, My, you've got a bunch of brilliant students.
I thought, Boy, she's being sarcastic as hell.
She said, except for this one student, they're all in the 90s.
I said, let me tell you his name.
I told her the student's name.
I said, how did you know?
I said, he's the only one who didn't cheat.
I said, what did he make?
She said, 75.
I said, well, he made it 76 before, so it didn't hurt him too much to be in with all those.
I handed the papers back the next day and I said, well, I know all but one of you cheated.
I said, so here's a new exam, and we'll see how the grades are today.
And so this one student who came up and said he was taking 515, 103 for the fifth time.
And he said, how did you know we cheated?
I said, no, I deliberately missed eight points.
I could have made 100.
He flipped open his tablet and he had the answers all in the back of his tablet.
He said on the one that he had done so well on, but his grade fell down below 70 on this one.
And I said, how did you know we cheated?
I deliberately missed eight points.
And I said, look, let me tell you how to cheat.
I put down how long it took each person to answer the test.
I said, it took you 20 minutes.
When it would take me more than that probably, knowing the answers, just to go through them and write it down.
I said, you should take the full 50 minutes and then beg for five minutes more.
I said, instead of missing eight questions in your case, you should have missed 26, and I would have assumed you guessed lucky, got lucky on a number.
But he said, well, if I fail this course again, I'll go to Korea.
I said, well, send me a postcard.
I collect stamps.
Did you and any of your colleagues rate on the curve?
Well, I think there were a few that did it.
But you didn't.
I didn't, no.
I never did it.
I tried to grade what I thought it was.
Now, we had one fellow in, I think, electrical engineering called Square Root Jackson.
The first day of class took his slide rule out in the days when they had slide rules into the calculators and they take the square root of the class and he said that many of you are going to fail.
And that's how many failed.
We had bonehead English in those days.
What's that?
Well, it was English 100, I think it was called.
And it was for people who were from the bottom quartile of their class.
A prep course.
And it was really a pre-101 course.
Were there any nicknames for any of the other English courses you remember?
Like that was Bonehead.
Not that I know of.
Most of the faculty had nicknames.
Bloody Morgan and Tight Fanny Mayo.
And...